## Publications

### Peer reviewed journal articles
1) Martínez-Ferreiro, S., Arslan, S., Fyndanis, V., Howard, D., Kraljević, J. K., **Matić Škorić, A.**, … Soroli, E. (2024). Guidelines and recommendations for cross-linguistic aphasia assessment: a review of 10 years of comprehensive aphasia test adaptations. Aphasiology, 1–25. https://doi.org/10.1080/02687038.2024.2343456  
2) Kuvač Kraljević, Runje, N., Ružić, V., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Lenček, M., Štefanec, A. (2024). Predictors of reading comprehension and early profiling of poor readers in Croatian: educational and clinical perspectives. Frontiers in Psychology, 15. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2024.1297183  
3) Vanek, N., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Košutar, S., Stone, K., Matejka, S. (2024). Mental simulation of the factual and the illusory in negation processing: Evidence from anticipatory eye movements on a blank screen. Scientific Reports, 14, 2844. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-53353-0  
4) Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Gabaj, M. (2023). Personal narratives of school-age children: A cross-sectional developmental study. Folia Phoniatrica et Logopedica, 75(6): 412–430. https://doi.org/10.1159/000533399  
5) **Matić Škorić, A.**, Norvik, M. I., Kuvač Kraljević, J., Røste, I., Gram Simonsen, H. (2023). Comprehensive Aphasia Test (CAT): Comparability of the Croatian and Norwegian versions. Aphasiology, 10.1080/02687038.2023.2250516  
6) **Matić Škorić, A.**, Kuvač Kraljević, J., Lenček, M. (2023). Textbook Materials for the Lower Grades of Elementary School: Do They Conform to the Principles of Plain Language?. Croatian Journal of Education. https://doi.org/10.15516/cje.v25i1.4569  
7) Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Lice K. (2023). Main Concepts in the Spoken Discourse of Persons with Aphasia: Analysis on a Propositional and Linguistic Level. Languages, 8(2): 120. https://doi.org/10.3390/languages8020120  
8) Kelić, M., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Palmović, M. (2023). Croatian (mor)phonotactic word-medial consonant clusters in the early lexicon. Poznan Studies in Contemporary Linguistics, 59(1), 95-116. https://doi.org/10.1515/psicl-2022-2005  
9) Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Štefanec, A., Lenček, M. (2022). Jevčok, stanjak, vojge: pseudoword formation and their role in speech-language intervention. Contemporary Psychology 25(2), 109-123.  
10) Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Olujić Tomazin, M. (2022). Written Narratives of Adolescents with Developmental Language Disorder Compared with Typically Developing Adolescents and Adults. Written Language and Literacy, John Benjamins 25(2), 204-227. https://doi.org/10.1075/wll.00067.kra  
11) Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Roch, M., Kogovšek, D., Novšak Brce, J. (2022). Public awareness of Developmental Language Disorder in Croatia, Italy and Slovenia. International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders, 57: 1269-1280. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/1460-6984.12752  
12) Košutar, S., **Matić Škorić, A.** (2022). Who is likely to be rementioned? An experimental study of implicit causality bias in Croatian. Slovo a slovesnost 83(2), 83-102.  
13) **Matić, A.**, Kuvač Kraljević, J., Kogovšek, D., Novšak Brce, J., Roch, M. (2021). Developmental language disorder and associated misconceptions: a multi-country perspective. Hrvatska revija za rehabilitacijska istraživanja, 57(1), 145-157. doi: https://doi.org/10.31299/hrri.57.1.8  
14) Stankova, M., Rodríguez-Ortiz, I.R., **Matić, A.**, Levickis, P., Lyons, R., Messarra, C., Kouba Hreich, E., Vulchanova, M., Vulchanov, V., Czaplewska, E., Ringblom, N., Hansson, K., Håkansson, G., Jalali-Moghadam, N., Dionissieva, K., Günhan Senol, N.E., Law J. (2021). Cultural and Linguistic Practice with Children with Developmental Language Disorder: Findings from an International Practitioner Survey. Folia Phoniatrica et Logopaedica, 73(6). doi: https://doi.org/10.1159/000511903  
15) Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić, A.**, Lice, K. (2020). Putting the CAT-HR out: Key properties and specificities. Aphasiology, 34(7), 820-839. doi: http://doi.org/10.1080/02687038.2019.1650160  
16) Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić, A.**, Pavičić Dokoza, K. (2020). Telepractice as a reaction to COVID-19 crisis: insights from Croatian SLP settings. International Journal of Telerehabilitation, 12(2). doi: https://doi.org/10.5195/ijt.2020.6325  
17) Pavičić Dokoza, K., **Matić, A.**, Kuvač Kraljević, J. (2020). Modeli logopedske terapije: komparativna analiza hrvatskog i europskog konteksta. Klinička psihologija, 13(1-2). https://www.bib.irb.hr/1088795/download/1088795.2020-1.pdf doi: 10.21465/2020-KP-1-2-0001  
18) Law, J., Levickis, P., Rodriguez Ortiz, I., **Matić, A.**, Lyons, R., Messarra, C., Kouba Hreich, E., Stankova, M. (2019). Working with the parents and families of children with developmental language disorders: an international perspective. Journal of Communication Disorders, 82(105922). doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcomdis.2019.105922  
19) **Matić, A.**, Willer-Gold, J., Palmović, M., Peti Stantić, A. (2019). Relative Clause Attachment to a Coordinated Phrase in Croatian: a Psycholinguistic Perspective. Rasprave Instituta za hrvatski jezik i jezikoslovlje, 45(2), 549-570. doi: https://doi.org/10.31724/rihjj.45.2.15  
20) Palmović, M., **Matić, A.**, Kovačević, M. (2018). Resolution of anaphoric expressions in children and adults: evidence from eye movements. Contemporary linguistics, 44(85), 139-154. doi: https://doi.org/10.22210/suvlin.2018.085.13  
21) **Matić, A.**, Coumel, M., Palmović, M. (2018). Lexical processing of children with dyslexia: An eye-tracking adaptation of the Reicher-Wheeler task. Speech, 35(1), 27-52. doi: https://doi.org/10.22210/govor.2018.35.02  
22) **Matić, A.**, Hržica, G., Kuvač Kraljević, J., Olujić, M. (2018). Syntactic complexity of spontaneous spoken language of adult Croatian speakers. In: Brala Vukanović, M., Memišević, A. (Eds.), Language in Research and Teaching: Proceedings from the CALS Conference 2016. Berlin: Peter Lang GmbH, 143-156.  
23) **Matić, A.**, Kuvač Kraljević, J., Kologranić Belić, L., Olujić, M. (2018). Group-based direct and indirect approaches to language therapy for children with developmental language disorders: a pre-experimental study. Clinical Psychology 11(1-2), 21-39. http://klinicka.nakladaslap.com/en/articles/abstract/?id=2018-11-1-2-2  doi: 10.21465/2018-KP-1-2-0002  
24) **Matić, A.**, Kuvač Kraljević, J. (2017). Razumijevanje sintaktičkih struktura u odrasloj dobi: podatci s TROG-2:HR testa. [Comprehension of syntactic structures in adulthood – data from the TROG-2:HR test] Logopedija, 7(2), 42-48. doi: https://doi.org/10.31299/log.7.2.1  
25) **Matić, A.** (2017). Characteristics of eye movements and models of reading based on the use of eye-tracking. Croatian review of rehabilitation research, 53(2), 130-141. doi: https://doi.org/10.31299/hrri.53.2.10  
26) **Matić, A.** (2017). Overview of the book: Maja Kelić "Ovladavanje čitanjem: Priručnik za logopede, učitelje i roditelje", Zagreb: Naklada Slap, 2015 ; 176. Suvremena Psihologija 20(1), 99-101.  
27) Olujić, M., **Matić, A.** (2017). Govoreni i pisani jezik: koliko se razlikuju. [Spoken and Written Language: how much do they differ]. Speech, 34(1), 33-52. doi: https://doi.org/10.22210/govor.2017.34.02  
28) Kuvač Kraljević, J., Hržica, G., Olujić, M., Kologranić Belić, L., Palmović, M., **Matić, A.** (2016). Uzorkovanje specijaliziranih govornih i pisanih korpusa jezika odraslih govornika: izazovi i nedoumice. [Sampling challenges of specialized spoken and written adult speakers corpora]. In: Udier, S. L., Cergol Kovačević, K. (Eds.), Metodologija i primjena lingvističkih istraživanja: zbornik radova s međunarodnoga znanstvenog skupa HDPL-a [Methodology and application of linguistic research: Proceedings from the international conference of CALS]. Zagreb: Middle Europe & CALS, 159-170.  
29) Srebačić, I., **Matić, A.**, Čačko, S., Jurjević, J., Ćurić, M., Brdarić, B. (2015). Socioekonomska obilježja i jezične sposobnosti djece iz ruralnih sredina uključene u predškolski program [Socioeconomic characteristics and language abilities of children from rural areas attending a preschool programme]. Logopedija, 5(1), 1-9. https://hrcak.srce.hr/150369  
30) Olujić, M., Kuvač Kraljević, J., Hržica, G., Srebačić, I., **Matić, A.**, Kologranić Belić, L., Padovan, N. (2014). Probir jezičnih sposobnosti u predškolskoj dobi: individualni ili grupni? [Language screening for preschool children: Individual or group testing?] Logopedija, 4(1), 23-30. https://hrcak.srce.hr/131473  

### Book chapters
31) **Matić Škorić, A.**, Kovačević, M. (2022). Challenges of different approaches and methodologies in psycholinguistics: the example of an RC attachment preference study in Croatian. In: G. Csibra, J. Gervain i K. Kovács (Eds.), A Life in Cognition Studies in Cognitive Science in Honor of Csaba Pléh. Springer Nature Switzerland AG, 125-136.  
32) Palmović, M., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Zelenika Zeba, M., Kovačević, M. (2022). Phonological and lexical effects on reading in dyslexia. In: Cappelli, G., Noccetti, S. (Eds.), A linguistic approach to the study of dyslexia. Bristol, UK: Multilingual Matters.  
33) Jozipović, M., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Kuvač Kraljević, J., Lenček, M. (2022).  Psiholingvistička obilježja imenica i glagola u pisanim tekstovima udžbenika za prvi i drugi razred. [Psycholinguistic features of nouns and verbs in written texts of textbooks for the first and second grade]. In: Aladrović Slovaček, K. (Ed.), Suvremena promišljanja o usvajanju i učenju hrvatskoga jezika (prilozi u čast prof. dr. sc. Dunji Pavličević-Franić) [Contemporary reflections on the acquisition and learning of the Croatian language - contributions in honor of Dunja Pavličević-Franić]. Alfa, d.d.: Zagreb, 86.-98.  
34) Kovačević, M., **Matić Škorić, A.** (2022). Crtice o istraživanjima jezičnoga razvoja u svijetu i u Hrvatskoj: pogled unatrag i unaprijed. [On the research on language development in the world and in Croatia: a look back and forward]. In: Marković, A., Nazalević Čučević, I., Gligorić, I. M. (Eds.), Riječi o riječi i Riječi. [Words on words and Words]. Zagreb: Disput, 301-314.  
35) Olujić Tomazin, M., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Knežević, D. (2022). Students’ experiences and characteristics of online teaching at the beginning of the COVID pandemic in Croatia. In: Zovko, A., Vukelić, N., Miočić, I. (Eds.), Prema postpandemijskom obrazovanju: kako osnažiti sustav odgoja i obrazovanja?[ Towards post-pandemic education: how to strengthen the education system?]. Universtiy of Rijeka, Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences.  
36) Kuvač Kraljević, J., Pavičić Dokoza, K., **Matić, A.** (2019). Theory and practice for children with developmental language disorders: a Croatian vignette. In: Law, J., McKean, C., Murphy, C. A., Thordardottir, E. (Eds.), Managing Children with Developmental Language Disorder Theory and Practice Across Europe and Beyond, 1st Ed. Routledge: Taylor and Francis Group, 169-178.  
37) Kologranić Belić, L., **Matić, A.**, Olujić, M., Srebačić, I. (2015). Jezični, govorni i komunikacijski poremećaji djece predškolske i školske dobi [Language, speech and communication disorders in preschool and school children]. In: Kuvač Kraljević, J. (Ed.), Priručnik za prepoznavanje i obrazovanje djece s jezičnim teškoćama [Handbook for the recognition and education of children with language disorders]. Zagreb: Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation Sciences, 64-76.  
38) Padovan, N., Kuvač Kraljević, J., **Matić, A.** (2015). Važnost prevencije i intervencije u logopedskom radu. In: Kuvač Kraljević, J. (Ed.), Priručnik za prepoznavanje i obrazovanje djece s jezičnim teškoćama [Handbook for the recognition and education of children with language disorders]. Zagreb: Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation Sciences, 78-86.  
39) **Matić, A.**, Kologranić Belić, L., Kuvač Kraljević, J. (2015). Grupna jezična terapija. In: Kuvač Kraljević, J. (Ed.), Priručnik za prepoznavanje i obrazovanje djece s jezičnim teškoćama [Handbook for the recognition and education of children with language disorders]. Zagreb: Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation Sciences, 100-112.    

### Papers in press or under review
40) Lice, K., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Kuvač Kraljević, J. (in press). Word processing abilities of persons after stroke and traumatic brain injury. Acta Clinica Croatica.  
41) **Matić Škorić, A.**, Kelić, M., Pavlinušić Vilus, E., Palmović, M. (in review). The interplay between acoustics, phonology and morphology in the processing of morphologically complex words: evidence from Croatian. Italian Journal of Linguistics.  
42) Vanek, N., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Košutar, S., Matejka, S., Stone, K. (in review). Looks at what isn’t there: Eye movements on a blank screen when processing negation in a first and a second language. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience.  
43) Klešković, N., **Matić Škorić, A.**, Cepanec, M. (in review). Developmental trends in immediate echolalia in neurotypical children as reference points for the clinical assessment of stereotyped language. Journal Communication Disorders.  
44) Ferk-Dornstauder. M., Kouba Hreich, E., Stankova, M., Abou Melhem, N., Boyadzhieva-Deleva, E., Plez  L., **Matić Škorić, A.**, & Thordardottir, E. (in review). Dialogic book reading intervention across different languages and cultural settings: development and piloting of an international study protocol. Child Language Teaching and Therapy.  

### Qualification papers (PhD and Master's Thesis)
1)	**Matić, A.** (2020). Psiholingvistički pristup strukturno-značenjskim čimbenicima u obradi odnosnih rečenica. [Psycholinguistic approach to structural-semantic factors in processing relative clauses]. Doctoral thesis. University of Zagreb: Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. https://doi.org/10.17234/diss.2020.8937  
2)	**Matić, A.** (2014). Prikaz pilot programa grupne jezične terapije [Overview of the pilot programme of group language therapy]. Master’s thesis. University of Zagreb: Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation Sciences. https://www.bib.irb.hr/769926

### Conference talks and more 
[Extensive list of papers, conference talks and workshops](https://www.croris.hr/crosbi/searchByContext/2/33228?lang=en)
